“No, thank you,” said Professor McGonagall coldly, as though
she didn’t think this was the moment for lemon drops. “As I say,
even if You-Know-Who has gone —”
“My dear Professor, surely a sensible person like yourself can call
him by his name? All this ‘You-Know-Who’ nonsense — for eleven
years I have been trying to persuade people to call him by his
proper name: Vol de mort.” Professor McGonagall fl inched, but Dumbledore, who was unsticking two lemon drops, seemed not to notice. “It all gets so confusing if we keep saying ‘You-Know-Who.’ I
have never seen any reason to be frightened of saying Vol de mort’s
name.”
“I know you haven’t,” said Professor McGonagall, sounding half
exasperated, half admiring. “But you’re diff erent. Everyone knows
you’re the only one You-Know- oh, all right, Vol de mort, was frightened of.”
“You fl atter me,” said Dum ble dore calmly. “Vol de mort had
 powers I will never have.”
“Only because you’re too — well — noble to use them.”
“It’s lucky it’s dark. I haven’t blushed so much since Madam
Pomfrey told me she liked my new earmuff s.”
Professor McGonagall shot a sharp look at Dum ble dore and
said, “ e owls are nothing next to the rumors that are fl ying
around. You know what everyone’s saying? About why he’s disappeared? About what fi nally stopped him?”
It seemed that Professor McGonagall had reached the point she
was most anxious to discuss, the real reason she had been waiting
on a cold, hard wall all day, for neither as a cat nor as a woman had
she fi xed Dum ble dore with such a piercing stare as she did now. It
was plain that whatever “everyone” was saying, she was not going
the boy who lived
0
12
to believe it until Dum ble dore told her it was true. Dum ble dore,
however, was choosing another lemon drop and did not answer.
“What they’re saying,” she pressed on, “is that last night Voldemort turned up in Godric’s Hollow. He went to fi nd the Potters.  e rumor is that Lily and James Potter are — are — that
they’re — dead.”
Dum ble dore bowed his head. Professor McGonagall gasped.
“Lily and James . . . I can’t believe it . . . I didn’t want to believe
it . . . Oh, Albus . . .”
Dum ble dore reached out and patted her on the shoulder. “I
know . . . I know . . .” he said heavily.
Professor McGonagall’s voice trembled as she went on. “ at’s
not all.  ey’re saying he tried to kill the Potters’ son, Harry.
But — he couldn’t. He couldn’t kill that little boy. No one knows
why, or how, but they’re saying that when he couldn’t kill Harry
Potter, Vol de mort’s power somehow broke — and that’s why he’s
gone.”
Dum ble dore nodded glumly.
“It’s — it’s true?” faltered Professor McGonagall. “After all he’s
done . . . all the people he’s killed . . . he couldn’t kill a little boy?
It’s just astounding . . . of all the things to stop him . . . but how in
the name of heaven did Harry survive?”
“We can only guess,” said Dum ble dore. “We may never know.”
Professor McGonagall pulled out a lace handkerchief and
dabbed at her eyes beneath her spectacles. Dum ble dore gave a great
sniff as he took a golden watch from his pocket and examined it.
It was a very odd watch. It had twelve hands but no numbers; instead, little planets were moving around the edge. It must have
chapter one
01_
13
made sense to Dum ble dore, though, because he put it back in his
pocket and said, “Hagrid’s late. I suppose it was he who told you I’d
be here, by the way?”
“Yes,” said Professor McGonagall. “And I don’t suppose you’re
going to tell me why you’re here, of all places?”
“I’ve come to bring Harry to his aunt and uncle.  ey’re the
only family he has left now.”
“You don’t mean — you can’t mean the people who live here?”
cried Professor McGonagall, jumping to her feet and pointing at
number four. “Dum ble dore — you can’t. I’ve been watching them
all day. You couldn’t fi nd two people who are less like us. And
they’ve got this son — I saw him kicking his mother all the way up
the street, screaming for sweets. Harry Potter come and live here!”
“It’s the best place for him,” said Dum ble dore fi rmly. “His aunt
and uncle will be able to explain everything to him when he’s older.
I’ve written them a letter.”
“A letter?” repeated Professor McGonagall faintly, sitting back
down on the wall. “Really, Dum ble dore, you think you can explain
all this in a letter?  ese people will never understand him! He’ll be
famous — a legend — I wouldn’t be surprised if today was known
as Harry Potter Day in the future — there will be books written
about Harry — every child in our world will know his name!”
“Exactly,” said Dum ble dore, looking very seriously over the top
of his half-moon glasses. “It would be enough to turn any boy’s
head. Famous before he can walk and talk! Famous for something
he won’t even remember! Can’t you see how much better off he’ll
be, growing up away from all that until he’s ready to take it?”
Professor McGonagall opened her mouth, changed her mind,
the boy who lived
01
14
swallowed, and then said, “Yes — yes, you’re right, of course. But
how is the boy getting here, Dum ble dore?” She eyed his cloak suddenly as though she thought he might be hiding Harry underneath
it.
“Hagrid’s bringing him.”
“You think it — wise — to trust Hagrid with something as important as this?”
“I would trust Hagrid with my life,” said Dum ble dore.
“I’m not saying his heart isn’t in the right place,” said Professor
McGonagall grudgingly, “but you can’t pretend he’s not careless.
He does tend to — what was that?”
A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them. It
grew steadily louder as they looked up and down the street for
some sign of a headlight; it swelled to a roar as they both looked up
at the sky — and a huge motorcycle fell out of the air and landed
on the road in front of them.
If the motorcycle was huge, it was nothing to the man sitting
astride it. He was almost twice as tall as a normal man and at least
fi ve times as wide. He looked simply too big to be allowed, and so
wild — long tangles of bushy black hair and beard hid most of his
face, he had hands the size of trash can lids, and his feet in their
leather boots were like baby dolphins. In his vast, muscular arms he
was holding a bundle of blankets.
“Hagrid,” said Dum ble dore, sounding relieved. “At last. And
where did you get that motorcycle?”
“Borrowed it, Professor Dum ble dore, sir,” said the giant, climbing carefully off the motorcycle as he spoke. “Young Sirius Black
lent it to me. I’ve got him, sir.”
chapter one

15
“No problems, were there?”
“No, sir — house was almost destroyed, but I got him out all
right before the Muggles started swarmin’ around. He fell asleep as
we was fl yin’ over Bristol.”
Dum ble dore and Professor McGonagall bent forward over the
bundle of blankets. Inside, just visible, was a baby boy, fast asleep.
Under a tuft of jet-black hair over his forehead they could see a curiously shaped cut, like a bolt of lightning.
“Is that where — ?” whispered Professor McGonagall.
“Yes,” said Dum ble dore. “He’ll have that scar forever.”
“Couldn’t you do something about it, Dum ble dore?”
“Even if I could, I wouldn’t. Scars can come in handy. I have one
myself above my left knee that is a perfect map of the London Underground. Well — give him here, Hagrid — we’d better get this
over with.”
Dum ble dore took Harry in his arms and turned toward the
Dursleys’ house.
“Could I — could I say good-bye to him, sir?” asked Hagrid. He
bent his great, shaggy head over Harry and gave him what must
have been a very scratchy, whiskery kiss.  en, suddenly, Hagrid
let out a howl like a wounded dog.
“Shhh!” hissed Professor McGonagall, “you’ll wake the Muggles!”
“S-s-sorry,” sobbed Hagrid, taking out a large, spotted handkerchief and burying his face in it. “But I c-c-can’t stand it — Lily an’
James dead — an’ poor little Harry off ter live with Muggles —”
“Yes, yes, it’s all very sad, but get a grip on yourself, Hagrid, or
we’ll be found,” Professor McGonagall whispered, patting Hagrid
the boy who lived
0
16
gingerly on the arm as Dum ble dore stepped over the low garden
wall and walked to the front door. He laid Harry gently on the
doorstep, took a letter out of his cloak, tucked it inside Harry’s
blankets, and then came back to the other two. For a full minute
the three of them stood and looked at the little bundle; Hagrid’s
shoulders shook, Professor McGonagall blinked furiously, and the
twinkling light that usually shone from Dum ble dore’s eyes seemed
to have gone out.
“Well,” said Dum ble dore fi nally, “that’s that. We’ve no business
staying here. We may as well go and join the celebrations.”
“Yeah,” said Hagrid in a very muffl ed voice, “I’d best get this
bike away. G’night, Professor McGonagall — Professor Dumbledore, sir.”
Wiping his streaming eyes on his jacket sleeve, Hagrid swung
himself onto the motorcycle and kicked the engine into life; with a
roar it rose into the air and off into the night.
“I shall see you soon, I expect, Professor McGonagall,” said
Dum ble dore, nodding to her. Professor McGonagall blew her nose
in reply.
Dum ble dore turned and walked back down the street. On the
corner he stopped and took out the silver Put-Outer. He clicked it
once, and twelve balls of light sped back to their street lamps so
that Privet Drive glowed suddenly orange and he could make out a
tabby cat slinking around the corner at the other end of the street.
He could just see the bundle of blankets on the step of number
four.
“Good luck, Harry,” he murmured. He turned on his heel and
with a swish of his cloak, he was gone.
chapter one

17
A breeze ruffl ed the neat hedges of Privet Drive, which lay silent
and tidy under the inky sky, the very last place you would expect
astonishing things to happen. Harry Potter rolled over inside his
blankets without waking up. One small hand closed on the letter
beside him and he slept on, not knowing he was special, not knowing he was famous, not knowing he would be woken in a few
hours’ time by Mrs. Dursley’s scream as she opened the front door
to put out the milk bottles, nor that he would spend the next few
weeks being prodded and pinched by his cousin Dudley. . . . He
couldn’t know that at this very moment, people meeting in secret
all over the country were holding up their glasses and saying in
hushed voices: “To Harry Potter — the boy who lived!”
the boy who lived

18
chapter two
Nearly ten years had passed since the Dursleys had woken
up to fi nd their nephew on the front step, but Privet Drive
had hardly changed at all.  e sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass number four on the Dursleys’ front door;
it crept into their living room, which was almost exactly the same
as it had been on the night when Mr. Dursley had seen that fateful
news report about the owls. Only the photographs on the mantelpiece really showed how much time had passed. Ten years ago,
there had been lots of pictures of what looked like a large pink
beach ball wearing diff erent-colored bonnets — but Dudley Dursley was no longer a baby, and now the photographs showed a large
blond boy riding his fi rst bicycle, on a carousel at the fair, playing
a computer game with his father, being hugged and kissed by his
mother.  e room held no sign at all that another boy lived in the
house, too.